['http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22263045/injured-ab-de-villiers-ruled-first-three-odis', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22262239/wanderers-pitch-rated-poor-icc', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22265027/think-two-steps-ahead-odis-unlike-tests-rohit-sharma', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22260765/dual-world-t20s-shoot-crowd-records', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22265347/icc-launches-investigation-irregular-activities-private-uae-league', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22262191/mitchell-santner-babar-azam-rise-top-t20i-rankings', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22261200/pujara-prepare-england-tour-yorkshire-stint', 'http://espncricinfo.com//story/_/id/22262481/humiliating-ipl-auction-criticised-new-zealand-cricket-players-association']
Injured de Villiers ruled out of first three ODIs


Ab de Villiers has been ruled out of the first three ODIs against India with a finger injury. The selectors will not name a replacement, so the squad has been trimmed to 14 players, with the likelihood of Khaya Zondo being handed a debut now higher.
De Villiers sustained the injury to his right index finger during the third Test against India and will need two weeks to make a complete recovery. He is expected to be fit for the fourth match, the pink ODI at the Wanderers, for which he is one of the ambassadors.
South Africa had named a squad for the first three matches only as they look to launch vision 2019, their pathway to the World Cup. It was without Farhaan Behardien, a possible replacement for de Villiers in the middle order but included Zondo, who was part of the South African squad that toured India in late 2015 although he did not play a game. Zondo's List A numbers do not put him among the top-performing domestic players but his performances for South Africa A and his "potential", according to convener of selectors Linda Zondi, is what the selectors are interested in. Opener Aiden Markram, who could slot in further down the order, is also in the squad.
The ODI series starts on Thursday in Durban and de Villiers will miss matches at Kingsmead, SuperSport Park and Newlands.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Wanderers pitch rated 'poor' by ICC


The Wanderers pitch has been rated "poor" by the ICC for the third Test between South Africa and India, which saw heavy criticism from the cricket fraternity. As a result, Wanderers has received three demerit points, which will hang over the venue for a rolling five-year period.
One of South Africa's premier cricket grounds, Wanderers has escaped an immediate ban. But if the venue reaches a total of five demerit points during the five-year period, it will be suspended from hosting any international cricket for 12 months.
The "poor" rating was given by match referee Andy Pycroft who stated: "The pitch prepared for the final Test was a poor one. It had excessively steep and unpredictable bounce, and excessive seam movement.
"It deteriorated quickly as the match progressed, which made batting extremely difficult and hazardous, resulting in the medical staff from both the sides having to come onto the field of play multiple times to treat their batsmen.
"As the on-field umpires are also responsible for the players' safety, they expressed concerns about the behavior of the pitch, and debated after day three if it was appropriate to continue the match. In the end, the umpires made the decision to continue and the Test reached its natural conclusion on day four. However, there was still excessive variable bounce and seam movement when the Test match ended."
The threat hanging over Wanderers will mean groundsman Bethuel Buthelezi could have to re-evaluate his penchant for preparing spicy surfaces for Test cricket, the most recent one at the request of the South African team. Tests for the last three years at Wanderers have not gone to five days with the ones against England in 2016 and Sri Lanka in 2017 lasting only three days each.
The recently completed Test went to a fourth day but was marred with controversy after players were taken off the field on the third afternoon so the umpires could consult with the match referee about the safety of the surface after Dean Elgar was hit on the helmet. Several other batsmen from both sides took body blows thanks to exaggerated movement and variable bounce over the course of the Test but Elgar's blow looked serious enough to prompt action. He was tested for concussion and suffered no serious damage, even returning to top-score the following day, but Elgar believed the Test should have been called off earlier.
No other player took such a strong stance, with India's captain and vice-captain, Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane, both saying they found it challenging but not dangerous. South Africa's captain Faf du Plessis distanced himself from the surface and insisted he had only asked for pace and bounce, not grass while emphasising that he was disappointed groundsmen around the country could not consistently produce the kinds of surfaces the team wanted. Du Plessis said he did not expect the Wanderers to be banned from hosting international cricket "because we finished the game," but South Africa were expecting some repercussions for the venue, as team manager Mohammed Moosajee mentioned on the day played was called off early.
The biggest relief for Wanderers is that the sold-out ODI and T20 against India in February will go ahead, as will the Test against Australia, which takes place over the Easter weekend. Those matches are Wanderers' best hope of drawing big crowds after the India Test, which started on a Wednesday and ended on a Saturday, and managed to pull in under 35,000 people over the four days. Wanderers has a capacity of 34,000 and rarely sells out for Tests, which are often played outside of the holiday season.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Think two steps ahead in ODIs, unlike in Tests - Rohit


Rohit Sharma is ready to put behind him the Test series in which he was preferred to Ajinkya Rahane for the first two Tests and then dropped. Rahane made a crucial contribution in the Test that India won. Rohit is a genius ODI batsman, and that confidence just shows vis-a-vis when he is playing Tests and still looking to establish himself. In ODIs, he has proved himself almost all over the world and in big tournaments, and South Africa is a blip he will be keen to correct.
Going into this six-ODI series he won't have the same trepidation he might have had going into the Tests. Just like Quinton de Kock for South Africa, he will be looking forward to this change in format.
What is different in Tests then? Two days before the start of the ODI series, Rohit, India's limited-overs vice-captain, might have unwittingly given away a little bit of a peak into his mind when playing different formats. He was asked if the changes for the ODIs will be more technical or mental, and he ended up putting Test batting in perspective.
"You need to tell yourself that the shots you played in Tests and shots you play in ODIs are different," Rohit said. "I am talking about myself. Every individual has their own plan, but when you play Test cricket it is important to analyse the situation, where the game stands at that point, and one bad shot can change the course of the game."
Rohit has had that experience in Tests, which possibly makes him bat unnaturally. In Southampton in 2014, with India leading the series, Rohit holed out off Moeen Ali just before a break, and India went down after that, both in the Test and the series.
Now comes the contrast in limited-overs cricket. "In ODIs you think two steps ahead and want to put pressure back on the bowlers," Rohit continued. "And change it around. There are a lot of Test cricketers who think in the same fashion in ODI [and Test] cricket. For me, it is different and nothing changes other than mentally. Technical aspect remains the same. Yes, the shot selection and certain technical aspect of your game changes but mentally you have to keep telling yourself that you have to read the situation and try and analyse where the game is going and where you want the game to be going after the day's play."
Rohit is not a natural opener but he can tell you how to build an ODI innings even if you wake him up in the middle of the night and give him a situation. It is rightly feared that Rohit can come close to scoring an individual triple-hundred in ODIs. Rohit, though, doesn't want to take it for granted, especially in the light of walking from a format he struggled to one that comes naturally to him.
"See, nothing is comfortable in cricket, in sport rather," Rohit said. "There will always be times when things are not going your way, and then when things are going your way. It is important for you to keep things going. I'm not going to talk about Test cricket so much because it's over now, and we have a big job at hand winning the ODI series here.
"I think every batsman who will be taking part in this ODI series will have a huge role to play. I'm here to make an impact in the series, I want to try and do that. Both are different formats. It's not that I don't try so much in Test cricket and try a lot in ODI cricket. I give the same effort in all the formats that I play, but sometimes it comes off and sometimes it doesn't. But that doesn't mean that you have to change things too much. You've got to believe in yourself, you've come so far and played and got success. So you have to believe in your ability and know how to take things forward. I've been in a difficult situation before many times, so for me it's all about taking it one game at a time and responding to situations."
Rohit wants to put his good form in ODIs to good use in the upcoming series. "I'm enjoying batting quite a bit," Rohit said. "Of course, the last six-seven months have been really great. Since the Champions Trophy in England, we've had a great run except for the loss against Pakistan [in the final]. That was a little disappointing. But yes, since then it's been a good run and I hope I can continue and put the team in a good situation. We want to get those victories away from home. It's always important what you do outside India."
There will be a personal record to set straight too. Rohit does have good memories of South Africa. He played a big part in winning the World T20 final in 2007 here, he won his first IPL here, but his last two international trips have not been memorable. In Tests, he has had eight innings for just 123 runs in the country. He averages only 12.28 in South Africa after seven ODI innings. He was part of the side that was streamrolled in the ODIs on the last trip. He will set about this job with the knowledge he has done it before elsewhere.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Dual World T20s shoot for crowd records


Two more editions of the burgeoning Women's Big Bash League will help build anticipation for a standalone Women's World Twenty20 tournament in 2020, with a showpiece final expected to draw the largest crowd for a women's cricket fixture.
That's the view of Australia's captain Meg Lanning, who was visibly enthused by the concept of the World T20 standing apart from the men's event as a forerunner to further growth for the women's game. The dual women's and men's tournaments were launched in Melbourne on Tuesday with Adelaide, Brisbane, Canberra, Geelong, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney announced as host cities: both finals, the women's on March 8 - also International Women's Day - and the men's on November 15, will be held at the MCG.
In scheduling the women's final at Australia's biggest venue, organisers are hopeful of topping the record for a women's cricket match - the estimated 70,000 who turned up to Eden Gardens in Kolkata for the 1997 50-over World Cup final won by Australia. The biggest attendance for a women's sporting fixture of any kind was set in 1999, when 90,185 witnessed the women's football World Cup final between the USA and China at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California. The overall attendance for that event was 1,194,215 - an average of 37,319 per match.
Among other venues, the SCG will host both women's semi-finals and one of the men's semis, with the other to be held at Adelaide Oval. Perth's new stadium has also been awarded matches. "I think it shows how far it's come," Lanning said of the standalone event, which will follow this year's event in the Caribbean. "The support for the women's game's been great throughout the Ashes and been building over time and that's not just cricket, it's sport in general. To show that we want to play a final here at the MCG and fill it out, I think, it just shows where it's headed.
"For it to be a home World Cup I think that's a very special moment as a player and we saw how successful the one in 2015 was here with the men's, so the fact it's a standalone tournament for the women and the final's going to be here at the MCG on International Women's Day, that's certainly something we want to be a part of."
Cricket Australia has worked assiduously on the WBBL over the past two years, gaining greater television traction than first expected, and there are longer-term plans to move the tournament into its own October slot in the calendar rather than running concurrently with the men's BBL as is currently the case. Fixtures for the WBBL semi-finals, in which first and second-placed Sydney teams will have to travel to play in Adelaide and Perth against lower-ranked opponents due to the matches being held as double-headers with the men's playoffs, has highlighted the difficulties of running the vents side by side.
"At the start of the year everyone knew the finals would be held where the men's were and it's a difficult one, I don't think everyone's going to win out of it," Lanning said. "The fact you've got two of the same teams playing in the same state I think it makes a lot of sense to have them as true double-headers and I think that'll help really build excitement and hopefully the crowds are bigger as well. WBBL is about the fans' experience and hoping to bring new fans to the game ... it's probably not ideal for the Sydney teams but we knew that at the start of the year.
"I think it's something we could look at. I think we saw through the Ashes with that standalone series that it created a lot of interest and the crowds were really good, so it's definitely something we can look to, especially with this T20 tournament being standalone it makes a lot of sense."
Australia currently hold neither 50-over or T20 crowns in the women's game, while the men's team have long been one of the shortest formats strugglers. This was acknowledged by the captain Steven Smith, who also admitted he could not say for sure whether or not he would be leading Australia at the 2020 event.
"Who knows? A couple of years away obviously. I'd like to be," Smith said. "I think playing in a World Cup here in 2015 it was incredibly special to be a part of, so I'd love to be a part of the World T20 and captain that side, but it is a couple years away.
"[We need] the right balance of players and the right way to play the game. A lot of strategy has come into T20 cricket now and the right match-ups with the right guys bowling to the right batters and things like that. There'll be a lot of strategy around it and I think the right personnel to get the job done."
-----------------------------------------------------------------


ICC launches investigation over 'irregular activities' in private UAE league


A private cricket league in Ajman, UAE, has come under the spotlight for suspected 'irregular activities', as the International Cricket Council's (ICC) Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) launched an investigation. The tournament, named the All-Time Ajman league, had to be called off on its second day after local cricket authorities refused to allow them to continue using the ground. The venue, Ajman Oval, a popular cricket ground in the country, has been suspended with immediate effect.
The tournament was a private one and since it is not sanctioned, it does not come under the purview as such of the Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) or the ICC. But the ICC took notice after a video went viral in which batsmen appeared to be doing their best to get dismissed. Efforts to return to the crease after charging the bowler were virtually non-existent, while suicidal attempts at runs and a lack of urgency and intensity raised eyebrows. The tournament involved expatriates from a number of South Asian countries, and a few former international players. One of the recruiters, acting as a player agent, was also involved in the tournament in Uganda that ended up being overshadowed by a pay dispute.
The ICC confirmed it had taken up the case. "There is currently an ICC Anti-Corruption Unit investigation underway in relation to the Ajman All Stars League held recently in Ajman, UAE," Alex Marshall, the ICC general manager, Anti-Corruption, said in a statement. "The ICC ACU works to uphold integrity in cricket, and in keeping with that role we are talking to players and officials and will not make any further comment at this time."
The Ajman Oval has, over the last few years, emerged as a potential cricketing venue owing to facilities that are of international standard, including floodlights. But any cricket that takes place there has to be approved by the local cricket council. The secretary general of the Ajman Cricket Council Shaji Ul Mulk told ESPNcricinfo that this tournament wasn't sanctioned by any cricketing authority.
"The tournament wasn't approved and we only came to know about the activity on day two," Mulk said. "There are procedures and when my staff asked them to go by the rule book, they dispersed and never came back again. Meanwhile, we found the Ajman Oval breaching the code more than once and hence we have suspended their affiliation. We have a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and are cooperating with the ICC in their ongoing investigation."
Cricket in the UAE is mainly regulated by the Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) with Abu Dhabi, Sharjah, Dubai and Ajman the most popular venues in the country. UAE is an associate member at the ICC whose club and department cricket actives are regulated by four major councils under the ECB's watch.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Santner, Babar rise to the top of T20I rankings


New Zealand left-arm spinner Mitchell Santner has displaced team-mate Ish Sodhi as the No. 1 bowler in T20Is, following his haul of four wickets in the home series against Pakistan. Ish Sodhi, who took two wickets in the series at an economy rate of 8.66, has moved down to third place. Santner leads the second-placed Rashid Khan by one point. He is the fourth New Zealander after Daniel Vettori, Shane Bond and Sodhi to secure the top spot for bowlers.
Pakistan batsman Babar Azam, who was the leading scorer in the series with 109 runs in three innings at an average of 54.50 and strike-rate of 125.28, has vaulted 11 places to become the No.1 batsman in T20Is. Babar is only the second Pakistan batsman, after former captain Misbah-ul-Haq, to the landmark. Colin Munro, who had held the top spot before the start of the series, slipped to fourth after managing 50 runs in two innings.
Bangladesh's Shakib Al Hasan continues to be the top-ranked T20I allrounder followed by Australia's Glenn Maxwell.
Shakib was also the No. 1 allrounder in the ODI rankings, having reclaimed the top spot from Mohammad Hafeez. In the ODI rankings for bowlers, Hasan Ali dropped to fifth from first. South Africa legspinner Imran Tahir leads the list followed by Trent Boult, Jasprit Bumrah and Josh Hazlewood.
Click here for a full list of ICC player rankings
-----------------------------------------------------------------


Pujara to prepare for England tour with Yorkshire stint


Cheteshwar Pujara will warm up for India's Test series in England by playing county cricket for Yorkshire.
Pujara will share overseas duties with New Zealand captain Kane Williamson, and he is so intent upon making a good impression that he is due to arrive in the UK in time for a pre-season friendly against Leeds Bradford MCCU fixture on April 7.
There was little to delight Pujara in the IPL auction. He went unsold and he was one of the players whose name was not even read out.
In contrast, his stock in Test cricket remains as high as ever: he stands sixth in the ICC Test rankings, his average top side of 50. In Johannesburg last week, he went 53 balls before scoring his first run, the most by any top-order international batsman since 2001, but his half-century provided some of the ballast required for an India victory on a dubious pitch.
Despite a deal for Pujara being struck several weeks ago, Yorkshire delayed their announcement until the results of the IPL auction were confirmed.
The BCCI has also scheduled a one-off Test against Afghanistan in Bengaluru, from June 14-18, with Pujara set to depart for India after a Royal London 50-Over clash at Lancashire, but with Yorkshire hoping he will return in time for an away trip to Hampshire, in the Specsavers County Championship, on June 20.
India play five Tests in England between August 1 and September 11.
The addition of a second overseas batsman means Yorkshire will have three of the top six Test batsmen on their staff in 2018, with Joe Root ranked at three, despite his frustration at his low conversion rate of fifties to hundreds, and Williamson at four.
Yorkshire came out well from the IPL auction as Root, Jonny Bairstow, Liam Plunkett, David Willey and Adil Rashid all went unsold, but just because the ECB was fully supportive of the presence of England players in the IPL auction, recent history suggests it will not automatically follow that they release their centrally-contracted players for Championship duty.
There is also potential for Pujara to stay on after the India's summer Test tour for Yorkshire's final two Championship fixtures of the season.
"I'm really excited to be able to have the opportunity to represent Yorkshire once again," Pujara said. "It's always nice to be able to come over here and play some County Cricket and I love the passion the people of Yorkshire have for the game. Each time I've played county cricket it has improved me as a player. That's the plan again in 2018. I just want to score as many runs as possible for Yorkshire and soak up as much as I can from the whole experience."
Pujara, who delivered a record-breaking 12th double century of his 12-year career towards the end of 2017, averages 56.68 in first-class cricket. His County Championship record stands at 816 runs with three fifties and as many hundreds. One of each came in Yorkshire colours in the early stages of the club's second successive Championship winning year.
"It goes without saying that Cheteshwar is a highly-driven individual and very skilled batsman," said Yorkshire's director of cricket Martyn Moxon. "We're delighted to have him on board. The plan is for him to relieve some of the pressure on the top order that we struggled with at times in 2017. Just as he did in 2015, Pujara will relish the challenge of performing in English conditions."
Pujara had two spells at Nottinghamshire last season and has also played county cricket for Derbyshire as he has become the most common India player on the county circuit.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


'Humiliating' IPL auction criticised by NZCPA


Sanjay Manjrekar and Ajit Agarkar analyse some of the biggest buys of the IPL auction (6:20)
The IPL has signalled that it might move away from the auction system, which was this week criticised as "undignified and cruel" and "humiliating" to players.
New Zealand has become the first country where administrators have dared to voice disapproval of the auction. Heath Mills, chief executive of the New Zealand Cricket Players Association, told the New Zealand Herald: "I think the whole system is archaic and deeply humiliating for the players, who are paraded like cattle for all the world to see."
Mills was endorsing a tweet from Peter Clinton, a former chief executive of Wellington Cricket, who said: "The IPL Auction is such an undignified, cruel and unnecessary employment practice. Ridiculous that it exists today, belongs in the medieval ages."
The IPL is firmly established as the most lucrative career option for Twenty20 cricketers of note - the place where virtually every player wants to be - but Mills suggested that the acquiescence of the players should not be interpreted as contentment about the system.
"There's a lot of good things about the Indian Premier League and it's been great for cricket but I'd like to see it mirror the rest of professional sport in the way they engage athletes," Mills said.
"Some players do exceptionally well out of if but the vast majority would like to see the system changed. They would like to negotiate with coaches and owners behind closed doors."
Mills' criticism centred upon the players' lack of control over their own destiny. Under the auction system, they are commodities, available to the highest bidder, and have no input as to where they play.
"The players enter the auction not knowing where they are going, who their team-mates are going be, who's managing them, who the owners are -- no other sports league in the world engages players on that basis," he said.
"We've seen some players play for five or six teams over the 10 years the league has been going. Coaches cannot build an affinity with players, they can't build a long-term culture. Players' associations around the world would like to see it change."
Supporters seeking to identify with a club have also traditionally valued a mix of continuity and new signings, although the IPL's heavy turnover does not seem to have hampered its popularity as it has become an irresistible part of the world cricketing calendar.
Nevertheless, the IPL is aware of the scepticism form the rest of the cricketing world towards its "mega auctions". Hemang Amin, the IPL's chief operating officer, said that auctions might give way to a draft system, which is well established across a wide range of sports.
"Going forward, the thinking is that we will reduce, maybe not have mega auctions, but consider having a draft system for new players to come in, which acts as feeder system to teams," Amin said at the end of the two-day IPL auction last weekend. "Hence, IPL Governing Council is thinking on the lines of how to cut down on the big auction and have the continuity with teams."
This year the IPL made it mandatory that teams had to spend a minimum 75% of their purse before and during the auction. That would include both retentions and buying new players. The total purse available for all eight franchises was US $100 million, out of which Amin said $96.875 million was spent by the end of the auction.
Amin said the IPL had decided to reduce the number of players that remained unsold compared to the previous big auction, in 2014, so reducing the number of players actively rejected during the auction process.
"If you look at the 2014 auction, we had presented around 320 players then before going into the accelerated bidding process. This time, we have taken learnings from previous years. We presented 170 players of which around 120 were sold. So if you compare to 2014 when 200 players went unsold, this time it was 50 or 60 who went unsold. Also on day one, 70 out of 110 were sold. So we're trying to reduce the number of unsold players."
In all, however, 581 players were named in the final auction list. New Zealand managed to find seven sales from 24 names; England a similar outcome.
Mills was not confident about change. He told the Herald, "It's almost got to the point where there's more interest in the auction than the games and I think they'll keep doing it even though the general player view it is that there's better ways to do it."
-----------------------------------------------------------------


